Add PROCESS.md (#77)
haskell/security-advisories: PROCESS.md

# Haskell Security Response Team Process

> Copyright 2017, OpenStack Vulnerability Management Team
> Copyright 2023, Haskell Security Response Team
> This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License.
>   http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode
> Original version: https://opendev.org/openstack/ossa/src/branch/master/doc/source/vmt-process.rst

The Haskell Security Response Team (HSRT) is responsible for coordinating
the progressive disclosure of a vulnerability.

Members of the team are independent and security-minded folks who ensure
that vulnerabilities are dealt with in a timely manner and that
downstream stakeholders are notified in a coordinated and fair manner.
Where a member of the team is employed by a downstream stakeholder, the
member does not give their employer prior notice of any vulnerabilities.
In order to reduce the disclosure of vulnerability in the early stages,
membership of this team is intentionally limited to a small number of
people.

## Supported versions

> The Vulnerability Management team coordinates patches fixing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SRT coordinates patches fixing
```

> The Vulnerability Management team coordinates patches fixing

Reviewer: I actually think that we should say that the role of the team is to coordinate responsible disclosure of security vulnerabilities in the Haskell ecosystem and help Haskell users have an accurate and timely assessment of risks.

> vulnerabilities in packages published via Hackage.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it's not too restrictive.

## Process

Each security bug is assigned a HSRT *coordinator* (member from the

> haskell security response team) that will drive the fixing and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Haskell Security Response Team) that will coordinate the
```
We don't fix the bugs, we just help inform people

disclosure process. Here are the steps we follow.

### Reception

Private report can be received by email to [security-advisories@haskell.org](mailto:security-advisories@haskell.org),
or via a [private issue on the security-advisories repo](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/security/advisories/new).

Public report can be submitted as a [regular issue on the security-advisories repo](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues).

The first steps performed by the HSRT are to:

-   create a bug if one does not yet exist.
-   check that the report indicates the correct project and adjust as
    necessary.
-   contact the project's maintainer for confirmation
    of impact and determination of affected version.

### Patch development

For a private report, the reporter (automatic if reported directly as a
bug) and the affected projects' maintainers plus anyone they deem necessary

> to develop and validate a fix are added to the bug's notified list.

Reviewer: What is a notified list?

Author: That would be the issue notification/participant list, but I'm removing this part since it does not apply for us.

A fix is proposed as a patch to the private bug report,
**not sent to the public code review system**.

For public reports, there is no need to directly subscribe anyone and
patches can be submitted directly to the code review system instead of
as bug attachments (though the bug should be referenced in any commit
messages so it will be updated automatically).

If project-side delays are encountered at this or any subsequent stage
of the process, the HSRT and other interested parties may reach out to

> that project's maintainers requesting more immediate attention to the issue.

Reviewer: I agree - I 'd replace this section.

> ### Patch review

Reviewer: I'd get rid of this section - we're not going to be reviewing everyone's patches

For a private report once the initial patch has been attached to the
bug, core reviewers on the subscription list from the project in
question should review it and suggest updates or pre-approve it for
merging. Privately-developed patches need to be pre-approved so that
they can be fast-tracked through public code review later at disclosure
time.

### Draft advisory

> In the mean time, the HSRT coordinator prepares a security advisory

Reviewer: I think that we should work with the person who reports it to refine their draft security advisory, rather than writing them ourselves.

that will be communicated to downstream stakeholders.

The description should properly credit the reporter, specify affected
versions (including unsupported ones) and accurately describe impact and
mitigation mechanisms. The HSRT coordinator should use the template
below.

### Review advisory

The advisory is validated by the reporter and the project's maintainer.

### Send CVE request

> To ensure full traceability, we attempt to obtain a CVE assignment

Reviewer 3: Do we?  Should we?

We assign our own IDs.  Of course, we record corresponding CVE IDs (if any exist) in the `aliases` field.

Author: Following what rustsec does, we decided that CVE assignment is optional. It's already documented in the CONTRIBUTING doc, so I removed that part.

checkboxes, attempt to fill in the *affected components* and *attack
vector* fields if possible, paste in the *suggested description* from
the prose of the advisory (usually omitting the first sentence
as it's redundant with other fields), put the `$CREDIT` details in the
*discoverer/credits* field, and the bug URL in the *references* field.
If the report is still private, note that in the *additional information*
field like
`This report is currently under embargo and no disclosure date has been scheduled at this time.`

At the bottom of the page, fill in the *security code* and click the
*submit request* button. If some fields contain invalid data they will
be highlighted red; correct these, update the *security code* and
*submit request* again until you get a confirmation page.

### Get assigned CVE

MITRE returns the assigned CVE. It is added to the advisory,
and the bug is retitled to `$TITLE ($CVE)`.

### Embargoed disclosure

Once the patches are approved and the CVE is assigned, a signed email
with the vulnerability description is sent to the downstream
stakeholders. The disclosure date is set to 3-5 business days, excluding

> Monday/Friday and holiday periods, at 1500 UTC. No stakeholder is

Reviewer 3: This seems too specific for us, at this stage.  Maybe we can just say that the notice will state the planned disclosure date.

supposed to deploy public patches before disclosure date. Once the email
is sent, any stakeholders who reply requesting subscription to the
report may be added.

For non-embargoed, public vulnerabilities no separate downstream advance
notification is sent.

### Open bug, Push patch

In preparation for this, make sure you have a maintainer available to
help pushing the fix at disclosure time.

On the disclosure hour, open bug, push patches for review and
fast-track approvals (referencing the bug).

> Update the bug title to `[HSEC-$NUM] $TITLE`.

Reviewer: I think this isn't relevant, as we don't have the bug trackers.

Embargo reminder can be removed at that point.

[MITRE's CVE Request form](https://cveform.mitre.org/) should be used
again at this point, but instead select a *request type* of
`Notify CVE about a publication` and fill in the coordinator's *e-mail
address*, provide a *link to the advisory*, the *CVE IDs* covered, and
the *date published*. Once more, fill in the
*security code* at the bottom of the page and *submit request*.

### Publish HSEC

Shortly after pushing the patches (potentially waiting for the first
test runs to complete), publish the advisory to the repository.

### All patches merged

Patches approved in code review do not necessarily merge immediately,
but should be tracked closely until they do (if the bug number is
correctly identified in commit messages then it will be automatically

> updated to reflect this as well). Subsequent security point releases of

Reviewer 3: This seems OpenShift specific; I do not think we will have any such automation.
